docs/docs/100-roadmap.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Roadmap
Description: See what's on the roadmap of Kargo and find out more about the latest releases
---

# Kargo Roadmap

Over a series of releases, Kargo's maintainers have settled into a cadence of a
minor release roughly every six weeks, with two or three major features
completed per release, although this varies slightly by scope.

:::caution
This roadmap tracks only _major_ features and is subject to change at any time,
for the most up-to-date information, please see the [GitHub
Project](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/milestones)
:::

## In Progress

### v1.3.0

__Expected:__ TBD

v1.3.0 will focus on isolating user-defined promotion processes (or possibly
individual steps thereof) in their own ephemeral execution environments. This
is intended to pave the way for eventual support for custom/third-party
promotion steps.

## Upcoming

### v1.4.0 and Beyond

__Expected:__ TBD

v1.4.0 will leverage the improved isolation of user-defined promotion processes
to begin supporting custom/third-party promotion steps. This work will include
establishing a formal specification for developers wishing to implement their
own promotion steps, as well as building the mechanisms whereby operators may
install and users may leverage such promotion steps.

## Completed

### v1.2.0

This release focused on three large features: The ability to define reusable
sequences of promotion steps via `PromotionTask` or `ClusterPromotionTask`
resources, "soak times" (time criteria for a Promotion), and management of
generic Project `Secret`s.

### v1.1.0

This release dramatically improved the flexibility of the promotion steps
introduced in v0.9.0 through the addition of support for an expression language.

### v1.0.0

v1.0.0 was our long-anticipated GA release containing only small features,
bug fixes, stability improvements, and the final removal of the legacy
promotion mechanisms that were deprecated in v0.9.0.

### v0.9.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| [Promotion Steps](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/issues/2219) | strategic refactor | Transitioned from opinionated promotion mechanisms to an ordered lists of more finely-grained promotion directives steps reminiscent of GitHub Actions. These enable greater flexibility in addressing outlying use cases and have left us with a clear path forward for to eventually enable third-party integrations. |
| Production Readiness | chore | <ul><li>Prioritized stability of existing features.</li><li>Paid down technical debt.</li><li>**This does not mean v0.9.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.**</li></ul> |

### v0.8.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Auth via [GitHub Apps](https://docs.github.com/en/apps) | feature | Support GitHub Apps as an authentication option for GitHub repositories. |
| Multiple `Freight` per `Stage` | feature | Permit `Stage`s to host multiple pieces of `Freight` from different `Warehouse`s. Different artifacts, or sets of artifacts, can be promoted through parallel pipelines with different/independent cadence. |
| Production Readiness | chore | <ul><li>Prioritized stability of existing features.</li><li>Paid down technical debt.</li><li>**This does not mean v0.8.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.**</li></ul> |

### v0.7.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Multiple `Warehouse`s | feature | Improved UI support for displaying Freight from multiple `Warehouse`s. |
| Manual `Freight` Creation | feature | Added UI feature for manual `Freight` creation. |
| ECR/GAR Support | feature | Added multiple options for authenticating to image repositories in ECR and Google Artifact Registry, including support for EKS Pod Identity and GKE Workload Identity Federation. | 
| [Patch Promotions](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/issues/1250) | poc | Support a generalized option to promote arbitrary configuration (e.g. strings, files, and directories) to other paths of a GitOps repository. |
| Production Readiness | chore | Prioritized stability of existing features. **This does not mean v0.7.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.** |

### v0.6.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Project Management | feature | Added user / role / permission management capabilities to the CLI and UI. |
| Events | feature | Kargo emits noteworthy events as Kubernetes events. Events are also viewable in the UI. |
| Production Readiness | chore | Prioritized stability of existing features. **This does not mean v0.6.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.** |

### v0.5.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Warehouse` Rules/Filters | feature | Introduced optional path-based constraints on Git repository subscriptions. |
| Credential Storage | refactor | Simplified and streamlined format and storage of repository credentials. |
| Credential Management | feature | Added credential management capabilities to the CLI and UI. |
| CLI Improvements | refactor | Overhauled the CLI to make the tree of sub-commands more intuitive, with improved consistency in usage and documentation from command to command. |
| UI Improvements | feature | Achieved near-parity with CLI features. |

### v0.4.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Warehouse` Rules/Filters | feature | Introduced optional tag-based constraints on Git repository subscriptions. |
| Project Management | feature | <ul><li>Introduced `Project` CRD to simplify project initialization.</li><li>Removed `PromotionPolicy` CRD and folded its functionality directly into the `Project` CRD.</li></ul> |

### v0.3.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| GitHub PR-Based Promotion | feature | Pull request-based promotions are now supported on GitHub. |
| Verifications | feature | `Stage` resources can now execute a user-defined verification process after a promotion. These can be defined using Argo Rollouts `AnalysisTemplate` resources, and executions take the form of `AnalysisRun` resources. |
| Improved RBAC | feature | SSO user identities can now be mapped to Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` resources using annotations. |

### v0.2.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Freight` CRD | feature | Freight changed from being a property of a `Stage`, to being its own `Freight` CRD. |
| `Warehouse` CRD | feature | `Freight` production was decoupled from a pipeline's first `Stage` and now comes from a `Warehouse`. |
| Kargo Render | breaking change | The Bookkeeper project was rebranded as Kargo Render -- a Kargo sub-project for rendering manifests. |

Commit message:

docs: roadmap updates (#4283)
Signed-off-by: Kent Rancourt <kent.rancourt@gmail.com>
(cherry picked from commit 31f6e2ae8931d724db2f0140a58699aefdfc467f)

docs/docs/100-roadmap.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Roadmap
Description: See what's on the roadmap of Kargo and find out more about the latest releases
---

# Kargo Roadmap

Over a series of releases, Kargo's maintainers have settled into a cadence of a
minor release roughly every six weeks, with two or three major features
completed per release, although this varies slightly by scope.

:::caution
This roadmap tracks only _major_ features and is subject to change at any time,
for the most up-to-date information, please see the [GitHub
Project](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/milestones)
:::

## In Progress

### v1.6.0

__Expected:__ TBD

The anchor feature of v1.6.0 is support for triggering applicable Warehouses to
execute their artifact discovery process in response to inbound webhooks from
source code and container image repositories. Initial support will favor the
most popular platforms, such as GitHub, GitLab, Docker Hub and Quay.io, although
support for many others will be phased in over time.

## Completed

### v1.5.0

This release focused on UI improvement and streamlining `Project` configuration
through the introduction of a new `ProjectConfig` resource type. Conditional
execution of promotion steps was also improved such that the success or failure
of previous steps can be taken into account. This permits users to define
more robust promotion processes by defining steps that conditionally execute
error recovery or cleanup.

### v1.4.0

This release focused on small QOL improvements, notably access to logs generated
by `Job` metrics as part of verification processes and support for enriching
`Freight` with additional metadata by reading OIDC annotations from container
images.

### v1.3.0

This release focused primarily on introducing support for conditional execution
of promotion steps as determined by user-defined expressions.

### v1.2.0

This release focused on three large features: The ability to define reusable
sequences of promotion steps via `PromotionTask` or `ClusterPromotionTask`
resources, "soak times" (time criteria for a Promotion), and management of
generic Project `Secret`s.

### v1.1.0

This release dramatically improved the flexibility of the promotion steps
introduced in v0.9.0 through the addition of support for an expression language.

### v1.0.0

v1.0.0 was our long-anticipated GA release containing only small features,
bug fixes, stability improvements, and the final removal of the legacy
promotion mechanisms that were deprecated in v0.9.0.

### v0.9.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| [Promotion Steps](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/issues/2219) | strategic refactor | Transitioned from opinionated promotion mechanisms to an ordered lists of more finely-grained promotion directives steps reminiscent of GitHub Actions. These enable greater flexibility in addressing outlying use cases and have left us with a clear path forward for to eventually enable third-party integrations. |
| Production Readiness | chore | <ul><li>Prioritized stability of existing features.</li><li>Paid down technical debt.</li><li>**This does not mean v0.9.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.**</li></ul> |

### v0.8.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Auth via [GitHub Apps](https://docs.github.com/en/apps) | feature | Support GitHub Apps as an authentication option for GitHub repositories. |
| Multiple `Freight` per `Stage` | feature | Permit `Stage`s to host multiple pieces of `Freight` from different `Warehouse`s. Different artifacts, or sets of artifacts, can be promoted through parallel pipelines with different/independent cadence. |
| Production Readiness | chore | <ul><li>Prioritized stability of existing features.</li><li>Paid down technical debt.</li><li>**This does not mean v0.8.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.**</li></ul> |

### v0.7.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Multiple `Warehouse`s | feature | Improved UI support for displaying Freight from multiple `Warehouse`s. |
| Manual `Freight` Creation | feature | Added UI feature for manual `Freight` creation. |
| ECR/GAR Support | feature | Added multiple options for authenticating to image repositories in ECR and Google Artifact Registry, including support for EKS Pod Identity and GKE Workload Identity Federation. | 
| [Patch Promotions](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/issues/1250) | poc | Support a generalized option to promote arbitrary configuration (e.g. strings, files, and directories) to other paths of a GitOps repository. |
| Production Readiness | chore | Prioritized stability of existing features. **This does not mean v0.7.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.** |

### v0.6.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| Project Management | feature | Added user / role / permission management capabilities to the CLI and UI. |
| Events | feature | Kargo emits noteworthy events as Kubernetes events. Events are also viewable in the UI. |
| Production Readiness | chore | Prioritized stability of existing features. **This does not mean v0.6.0 is production-ready. It means it is several steps closer to it.** |

### v0.5.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Warehouse` Rules/Filters | feature | Introduced optional path-based constraints on Git repository subscriptions. |
| Credential Storage | refactor | Simplified and streamlined format and storage of repository credentials. |
| Credential Management | feature | Added credential management capabilities to the CLI and UI. |
| CLI Improvements | refactor | Overhauled the CLI to make the tree of sub-commands more intuitive, with improved consistency in usage and documentation from command to command. |
| UI Improvements | feature | Achieved near-parity with CLI features. |

### v0.4.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Warehouse` Rules/Filters | feature | Introduced optional tag-based constraints on Git repository subscriptions. |
| Project Management | feature | <ul><li>Introduced `Project` CRD to simplify project initialization.</li><li>Removed `PromotionPolicy` CRD and folded its functionality directly into the `Project` CRD.</li></ul> |

### v0.3.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| GitHub PR-Based Promotion | feature | Pull request-based promotions are now supported on GitHub. |
| Verifications | feature | `Stage` resources can now execute a user-defined verification process after a promotion. These can be defined using Argo Rollouts `AnalysisTemplate` resources, and executions take the form of `AnalysisRun` resources. |
| Improved RBAC | feature | SSO user identities can now be mapped to Kubernetes `ServiceAccount` resources using annotations. |

### v0.2.0

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |
| `Freight` CRD | feature | Freight changed from being a property of a `Stage`, to being its own `Freight` CRD. |
| `Warehouse` CRD | feature | `Freight` production was decoupled from a pipeline's first `Stage` and now comes from a `Warehouse`. |
| Kargo Render | breaking change | The Bookkeeper project was rebranded as Kargo Render -- a Kargo sub-project for rendering manifests. |
