🚀 The Kargo team is proud to unveil our feature-packed v1.8.0 release!

## ⚠️ Breaking Changes

The format of logs emitted by Kargo components has changed slightly.

## ⚠️ New Deprecations

None

## ✨ Noteworthy Features

Now the fun stuff! As usual, we packed so much great stuff into this release that we'd be here a very long time if we were to cover all of it in detail. Here's our still longer-than-usual list of new or improved features that we regard as being especially noteworthy.

* **`Freight` creation criteria:** `Warehouse` resources can now use expression-based criteria to control when automatic `Freight` creation occurs. This solves the long-standing problem of `Warehouse`s creating `Freight` with incompatible artifact combinations when subscribed to multiple repositories.

  With a `Warehouse`'s `Freight` creation policy set to `Automatic`, you can now provide criteria as an expression that must evaluate to `true` for automatic `Freight` creation to proceed. For example, to ensure `Freight` is created only when front end and back end container images have matching version tags:

  ```expr
  imageFrom('example/front-end').Tag == imageFrom('example/back-end').Tag
  ```

  You can read more about this new feature in the [Working with Warehouses](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/how-to-guides/working-with-warehouses#automatic-freight-creation) section of Kargo's documentation.
  
* **Syncing to an upstream `Stage`**: A new auto-promotion policy, `MatchUpstream`, allows `Stage` resource to perpetually sync with their immediate upstream `Stage` instead of always promoting the newest available `Freight`. This is ideal for scenarios like keeping a performance testing environment synced with the exact same artifacts currently being tested in a QA environment.

  You can read more about this feature in the [Working with Stages](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/how-to-guides/working-with-stages#auto-promotion) section of Kargo's documentation.

* **`git-merge-pr` promotion step**: A new promotion step enables automated merging of pull requests. This addresses requests from users who want to open PRs only for the audit purposes, then merge them immediately. **This feature is in beta state.**

  You can read more about this feature on the `git-merge-pr` promotion step's [reference page](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/promotion-steps/git-merge-pr).

* **New and improved metadata support**: You can now propagate important context between `Stage`s using a new `set-metadata` promotion step. Arbitrary metadata attached to `Freight` and `Stage` resources can be retrieved using new `stageMetadata()` and `freightMetadata()` expression functions. This enables use cases like associating a Slack thread ID with a `Freight` resource and sending an update to that thread each time the `Freight` is promoted to a different `Stage`.

  To learn more about these features, refer to the reference docs for the [`set-metadata`](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/promotion-steps/set-metadata) promotion step as well as the [`freightMetadata()`](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/expressions#freightmetadatafreightname) and [`stageMetadata()`](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/expressions#stagemetadatastagename) sections of the expressions reference docs.

* **Improved OIDC claim-to-ServiceAccount mappings:** The system for mapping authenticated users to Kubernetes `ServiceAccount`s has been overhauled with a new format that supports special characters not permitted in Kubernetes annotation keys. The change is largely transparent - existing mappings will migrate automatically with no user action required.

  You can read more about mappings in the [operator guide](https://docs.kargo.io/operator-guide/security/access-controls#user-to-serviceaccount-mappings) and [user guide](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/security/access-controls/#user-to-serviceaccount-mappings).

* **Harbor webhook receiver:** A new webhook receiver triggers `Warehouse` artifact discovery when container images or Helm charts are pushed to [Harbor](https://goharbor.io/) registries.

  To learn more, refer to the [Harbor webhook receiver](https://docs.kargo.io/user-guide/reference-docs/webhook-receivers/harbor/) reference docs. Special thanks to @ahockersten for this contribution.

* **Logging improvements**: We've replaced Kargo's internal logging framework, resulting in minor format changes to unstructured logs and new support for structured JSON logs (opt-in via chart settings).

* **Favorite `Project`s:** `Project`s can now be "starred" for quick access - perfect for organizations with a very large number of `Project`s.

* **Drag 'n' drop `Promotion`s:** Need we say more?

* **New `Freight` assembly option:** A new `Freight` "clone" feature lets you use existing `Freight` as a template, selecting only the artifact revisions you want to change from the original.

## 🙏 Special Thanks

Thank you, as always, to community members who made their first contribution to Kargo in this release!

* @mikedougherty
* @ahockersten
* @gladavius
* @ianstanton
* @kyounghunJang
* @jobama7860

**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/akuity/kargo/compare/v1.7.5...v1.8.0
