The Kargo team is excited to announce one of our biggest releases to date -- Kargo v1.5.0!

Users will notice right away that the UI has been overhauled with extensive improvements to both usability and responsiveness, but this release has a lot of new and improved functionality under the hood as well, so let's dive in!

## 🆕 What's New? {#whats-new}

So many quality-of-life improvements have landed in v1.5.0 that we cannot give individual attention to each one, but here are some of the highlights:

- Improved Project configuration:

  The `Project` CRD has historically had a `spec` field for defining Project configuration. In practice, this has been awkward to work with. Permission to perform various operations on Project-level resources (e.g. `Warehouses`, `Stages`, etc.) is managed at the _Project-level_ (i.e. with `ServiceAccount`s, `Role`s, and `RoleBinding`s in the Project's namespace). With `Project` resources themselves being _cluster-scoped_, permissions to update or delete them could not, themselves, be managed at the Project-level -- a quirk which has typically necessitated a Kargo _(system-level)_ admin to either manually assign additional permissions to Project admins or else perform `Project` update or delete operations on their behalf.

  To eliminate some of this friction, Kargo v1.5.0 introduces a new _namespaced_ [`ProjectConfig` CRD](../user-guide/how-to-guides/working-with-projects#project-configuration). Being namespaced (Project-level), permissions to update or delete Project configuration can now be managed at the Project-level itself, and in fact, such permissions are now automatically granted to the Project-level `kargo-admin` `Role` when a `Project` and its associated namespace are created.

  The difficulty of self-service Project deletion for Project admins remains unresolved, but we anticipate this to be addressed in an upcoming release and in the meantime, eliminating the need for Project admins to lean on Kargo admins for Project configuration updates should be a welcome improvement.

  In concert with this improvement, the definition of promotion policies has moved from the `Project` CRD to the `ProjectConfig` CRD _and_ received a large upgrade in the form of support for matching policies to Stages using patterns and label selectors.

  Note that upgrading to Kargo v1.5.0 from an earlier version will automatically migrate existing promotion policies from `Project` resources to new `ProjectConfig` resources. The `Project` CRD's `spec` field will be removed entirely in Kargo v1.7.0.

- Improved bookkeeping for skipped promotion steps:

  Until now, when conditions specified using an expression in a promotion step's `if` field evaluated to `false`, causing a step to be skipped, the step was recorded as a success, despite never having executed.

  Beginning in Kargo v1.5.0, skipped promotion steps are explicitly marked as such.

- Enhanced conditional promotion step execution:

  Kargo v1.5.0 also makes it possible to incorporate [the cumulative result of prior promotion steps](../50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/15-promotion-templates.md#conditional-steps) into conditions specified using an expression in a step's `if` field.

  - `always()` unconditionally evaluates to `true`, thus an expression like `${{ always() }}` will permit a step to execute regardless of the outcome of prior steps. This is useful for implementing steps that contain cleanup logic.

  - `failure()` evaluates to `true` if _any_ prior step has errored or failed, thus an expression like `${{ failure() }}` will permit a step to execute _only_ under those circumstances. This is useful for implementing steps that contain error-handling logic.

  - `success()` evaluates to `true` if _all_ prior steps have either succeeded or been skipped, thus an expression like `${{ success() }}` will permit a step to execute _only_ under those circumstances.

  - When a step's `if` field is omitted, the step's execution is contingent on all prior steps having either succeeded or having been skipped, as if the `if` field had contained the expression `${{ success() }}`.

  - It is also possible to directly access the status of an individual step using the `status()` function, thus an expression like `${{ status("my-name") == 'Errored' }}` will permit a step to execute _only_ if the step named `my-name` has errored.

  - Last, a new `continueOnError` field can be set to `true` to specify that a step that errors or fails should neither affect the evaluation of the `failure()` and `success()` functions as described above nor influence the overall outcome of the promotion.

- `ConfigMap` access and improved `Secret` access in expressions:

  `ConfigMap` and `Secret` resources within a Project's namespace can now be accessed within expressions using new [`config()`](../user-guide/reference-docs/expressions#configmapname) and [`secret()`](../user-guide/reference-docs/expressions#secretname) functions, respectively. For example, `${{ configMap('my-config').foo }}` will access the value of the `foo` key in the `my-config` `ConfigMap`. `${{secret('my-secret').bar }}` will access the value of the `bar` key in the in the `my-secret` `Secret`.

  Note the `secret()` function performs better than and replaces the existing `secret` map currently available in expressions, which has been deprecated and will be removed completely in Kargo v1.7.0.

- Improved Workload Identity Federation support in GKE:

  Those running Kargo within Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) may be familiar with Kargo's ability to use [ambient credentials](../operator-guide/security/managing-credentials#ambient-credentials) when accessing Elastic Container Registry (ECR) and Google Artifact Registry (GAR) repositories, respectively.

  For both of these, being a multi-tenant system, and in observance of the principle of least privilege, Kargo attempts to assume/impersonate Project-specific IAM roles/identities when accessing ECR and GAR repositories. On EKS, any failure to do so has automatically fallen back on attempting access using the controller's own ambient credentials directly. This has permitted administrators who may find it onerous to maintain Project-specific roles to grant permissions _directly_ to the controller if strict adherence to the principle of least privilege is not a concern. On GKE, however, this option has not previously been available. Beginning in Kargo v1.5.0, it is, thanks to the diligent efforts of @kacpercesarz98!

## New and Updated Promotion Steps {#new-and-updated-promotion-steps}

- The `git-clone` and `git-commit` promotion steps both now support the ability to specify optional authorship information, including signing keys, if so desired. When specified in either of these steps, that information overrides system-level defaults. Specifying authorship information in the `git-clone` step is a convenient way to extend that information to _all_ commits made to a repository by subsequent `git-commit` steps. Any authorship information specified in a `git-commit` step takes precedence over any that was specified in the `git-clone` step.

- The `git-open-pr` promotion step now exposes a `pr.url` field in its output, which can be used in subsequent steps. This is useful, for instance, to include a link to a PR in a Slack message sent via the `http` step.

- The `git-open-pr` and `git-wait-for-pr` promotion steps now support Bitbucket thanks to @chamodshehanka.

- The `helm-template` promotion step now supports directly setting the values of configuration keys directly in the step's configuration. This can be compared to using the `--set` flag in the Helm CLI to amend or override values specified in a `values.yaml` file.

## 🚨 Breaking Changes {#breaking-changes}

- Functions `commitFrom()`, `imageFrom()`, and `chartFrom()` used within expressions to locate artifacts in a `Promotion`'s `Freight` collection now return `nil` instead of an error when no matching artifact is found. This represents an added convenience, because [Expr](https://expr-lang.org/)'s [nil coalescing](https://expr-lang.org/docs/language-definition#nil-coalescing) and [optional chaining](https://expr-lang.org/docs/language-definition#optional-chaining) features make a `nil` result easier to deal with than an error.

- `phase` and `message` fields in `Project` and `State` statuses were deprecated in v1.3.0 and replaced with [conditions](https://maelvls.dev/kubernetes-conditions/). These deprecated fields have now been removed.

- The `messageFromSteps` field of the `git-commit` promotion step, deprecated in v1.3.0 has now been removed, replaced with guidance to use expressions in the `message` field to construct commit messages.

- The `kargo.akuity.io/project-secret: true` was added in v1.2.0 and promptly deprecated in v1.2.1 and replaced with `kargo.akuity.io/cred-type: generic`. Beginning with Kargo v1.5.0, this label no longer has any effect. Since this label and its effect were never documented, it is very unlikely that anyone has been using it, so listing this as a breaking change is a formality.

## ⚠️ New Deprecations {#new-deprecations}

- The `Project` resource type's `spec` field has been deprecated (as described in "What's New?") and will be removed in Kargo v1.7.0. It is _already_ invalid to create new `Project`'s including a `spec`. Existing `Project` resources with a `spec` field will have a new `ProjectConfig` resource created for them automatically.

- The `Warehouse` resource type's `gitRepoURL` field, previously used to link container image subscriptions to a related Git repository containing the image's source has been deprecated. This information may now be specified by annotating images with `org.opencontainers.image.source` at build time. Kargo has retrieved these annotations from container images since v1.4.0, and now leverages `org.opencontainers.image.source` to establish a link between container images and their source repositories. The `gitRepoURL` field will be removed in Kargo v1.7.0.

- The `secrets` map in expressions deprecated, replaced with a new, better-performing `secret()` function (as described in "What's New?"). The `secrets` map will be removed in Kargo v1.7.0.

## 👋 Welcome Faris! {#welcome-faris}

The Kargo team is also excited to welcome a new maintainer -- @fuskovic!

If you notice improved promotion step timeout accuracy in this release, you can thank @fuskovic for that!

## 🙏 First Time Contributors {#first-time-contributors}

As always, we would love to thank all first-time community contributors for their efforts! This release includes contributions from:

* @hidalz
* @Utwo
* @IvanJosipovic
* @fuskovic
* @BWagenerGenerali
* @schildwaechter
* @mirrajabi
* @han-steve
* @sbyrne13
* @Horgix
* @Eslam-mohammed-anwar
