docs/docs/50-user-guide/20-how-to-guides/20-working-with-projects.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
---

# Working with Projects

Each Kargo project is represented by a cluster-scoped Kubernetes resource of
type `Project`. Reconciliation of such a resource effects all boilerplate
project initialization, including the creation of a specially-labeled
`Namespace` with the same name as the `Project`. All resources belonging to a
given `Project` should be grouped together in that `Namespace`.

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
```

:::note
Deletion of a `Project` resource results in the deletion of the corresponding
`Namespace`. For convenience, the inverse is also true -- deletion of a
project's `Namespace` results in the deletion of the corresponding `Project`
resource.
:::

:::info
There are compelling advantages to using `Project` resources instead of
permitting users to create `Namespace` resources directly:

* The required label indicating a `Namespace` is a Kargo project cannot be
forgotten or misapplied.

* Users can be granted permission to indirectly create `Namespace` resources for
Kargo projects _only_ without being granted more general permissions to create
_any_ new `Namespace` directly.

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

## Project Configuration

A `ProjectConfig` resource defines project-level configuration for an associated
`Project`. At present, this only includes
[promotion policies](#promotion-policies)
that describe which `Stage`s are eligible for automatic promotion of newly
available `Freight`.

The `ProjectConfig` resource must have the same name as its associated `Project`
and be created in the `Namespace` of the `Project`. This separation of
configuration from the `Project` resource enables more granular RBAC control.
Users can be granted permission to modify project configurations via
`ProjectConfig` resources without necessarily having broader access to `Project`
resources themselves.

### Promotion Policies

A `ProjectConfig` resource can contain multiple promotion policies. Each policy
is defined by a `stageSelector` and an `autoPromotionEnabled` flag. The
`stageSelector` specifies which `Stage`s the policy applies to, and the
`autoPromotionEnabled` flag indicates whether automatic promotion is enabled for
those `Stage`s.

#### Basic Promotion Policy

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
   name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      name: test
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      name: uat
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

#### Advanced Promotion Policies with Selectors

Kargo supports more flexible ways to specify which `Stage`s a promotion policy
applies to, using either pattern matching or label selectors.

:::warning
Pattern and label matching introduce security considerations. Users with
appropriate permissions could potentially create resources with names or labels
deliberately crafted to match patterns, bypassing intended promotion controls.
Using [exact names](#basic-promotion-policy) provides the most secure option.
:::

##### Using Stage Selectors with Patterns

You can use the `stageSelector` field with pattern matching to apply a promotion
policy to multiple `Stage`s that match a specific pattern:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to a specific stage by exact name
      name: prod-east
    autoPromotionEnabled: false
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to all stages matching a regex pattern
      name: "regex:test-.*"
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to all stages matching a glob pattern
      name: "glob:dev-*"
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

The pattern matching supports:

- Exact name matching (when no prefix is used)
- Regex patterns with prefix `regex:` or `regexp:`
- Glob patterns with prefix `glob:`

##### Using Stage Selectors with Labels

You can also use
[Kubernetes-style label selectors](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#resources-that-support-set-based-requirements)
to apply a promotion policy to `Stage`s with specific labels:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      matchLabels:
        environment: development
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      matchExpressions:
      - key: environment
        operator: In
        values: ["development", "staging"]
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

#### Using Stage Selectors with Patterns and Labels

The [name](#using-stage-selectors-with-patterns) and
[label](#using-stage-selectors-with-labels) selectors can be combined, in which
case a `Stage` must match both the name and label selectors to be eligible for
automatic promotion:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      name: glob:prod-*
      matchLabels:
        example.org/allow-auto-promotion: "true"
```

In the example above, the promotion policy applies to all `Stage`s with the
`example.org/allow-auto-promotion: "true"` label and names matching the
`glob:prod-*` pattern.

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.

:::info
Requiring a `Namespace` to have the `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label to
be eligible for adoption by a new `Project` is intended to prevent accidental or
willful hijacking of an existing `Namespace`.
:::

The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with a label unrelated to Kargo:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: example
labels:
  kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
  example.com/org: platform-eng
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  # ...
```

## Interacting with Projects

Kargo provides tools to manage `Project`s using either its UI or
CLI. This section explains how to handle `Project`s effectively through both interfaces.


### Creating a Project

<Tabs groupId="create-project">
<TabItem value="ui" label="Using the UI" default>

1. Navigate to the Kargo UI and select <Hlt>Create</Hlt> in the top right corner.

   A <Hlt>Form</Hlt> tab will appear where you can enter the name of your `Project`:

   ![create-project](img/create-project.png)

   Alternatively, you can define the `Project` and other related configurations using the <Hlt>YAML</Hlt> tab:

   ![create-project](img/create-project-2.png)

1. After completing the <Hlt>Form</Hlt> or defining the `Project` in the <Hlt>YAML</Hlt> tab, click <Hlt>Create</Hlt>. 

   The new `Project` will appear a card on the UI's home page:

   ![create-project](img/create-project-3.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

1. To create a `Project` using the CLI, run:

   ```bash
   kargo create project <project>
   ```

   Alternatively, define the `Project` in a YAML file, for example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Project
   metadata:
     name: <project>
   ```

   Save the file and run:

   ```shell
   kargo create -f <filename>
   ```

1. To verify creation of the `Project`, run:

   ```shell
   kargo get project <project>
   ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deleting a Project

<Tabs groupId="delete-project">
<TabItem value="ui" label="Using the UI" default>

1. Select the `Project` you want to remove.

1. Click the dropdown next to the `Project`'s name in the upper left corner of the `Project` dashboard and click <Hlt>Delete</Hlt>:

   ![delete-project](img/delete-project.png)

1. To confirm deletion, enter the `Project`'s name and click <Hlt>Delete</Hlt> to permanently remove it:

   ![delete-project](img/delete-project-2.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

To delete a `Project` using the CLI, run:

```shell
kargo delete project <project>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

feat: Support disabling deletion of adopted namespace
Signed-off-by: Kavin <62742678+Kavinraja-G@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/50-user-guide/20-how-to-guides/20-working-with-projects.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
---

# Working with Projects

Each Kargo project is represented by a cluster-scoped Kubernetes resource of
type `Project`. Reconciliation of such a resource effects all boilerplate
project initialization, including the creation of a specially-labeled
`Namespace` with the same name as the `Project`. All resources belonging to a
given `Project` should be grouped together in that `Namespace`.

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
```

:::note
Deletion of a `Project` resource results in the deletion of the corresponding
`Namespace`. For convenience, the inverse is also true -- deletion of a
project's `Namespace` results in the deletion of the corresponding `Project`
resource.
:::

:::info
There are compelling advantages to using `Project` resources instead of
permitting users to create `Namespace` resources directly:

* The required label indicating a `Namespace` is a Kargo project cannot be
forgotten or misapplied.

* Users can be granted permission to indirectly create `Namespace` resources for
Kargo projects _only_ without being granted more general permissions to create
_any_ new `Namespace` directly.

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

## Project Configuration

A `ProjectConfig` resource defines project-level configuration for an associated
`Project`. At present, this only includes
[promotion policies](#promotion-policies)
that describe which `Stage`s are eligible for automatic promotion of newly
available `Freight`.

The `ProjectConfig` resource must have the same name as its associated `Project`
and be created in the `Namespace` of the `Project`. This separation of
configuration from the `Project` resource enables more granular RBAC control.
Users can be granted permission to modify project configurations via
`ProjectConfig` resources without necessarily having broader access to `Project`
resources themselves.

### Promotion Policies

A `ProjectConfig` resource can contain multiple promotion policies. Each policy
is defined by a `stageSelector` and an `autoPromotionEnabled` flag. The
`stageSelector` specifies which `Stage`s the policy applies to, and the
`autoPromotionEnabled` flag indicates whether automatic promotion is enabled for
those `Stage`s.

#### Basic Promotion Policy

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
   name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      name: test
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      name: uat
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

#### Advanced Promotion Policies with Selectors

Kargo supports more flexible ways to specify which `Stage`s a promotion policy
applies to, using either pattern matching or label selectors.

:::warning
Pattern and label matching introduce security considerations. Users with
appropriate permissions could potentially create resources with names or labels
deliberately crafted to match patterns, bypassing intended promotion controls.
Using [exact names](#basic-promotion-policy) provides the most secure option.
:::

##### Using Stage Selectors with Patterns

You can use the `stageSelector` field with pattern matching to apply a promotion
policy to multiple `Stage`s that match a specific pattern:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to a specific stage by exact name
      name: prod-east
    autoPromotionEnabled: false
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to all stages matching a regex pattern
      name: "regex:test-.*"
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      # Apply to all stages matching a glob pattern
      name: "glob:dev-*"
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

The pattern matching supports:

- Exact name matching (when no prefix is used)
- Regex patterns with prefix `regex:` or `regexp:`
- Glob patterns with prefix `glob:`

##### Using Stage Selectors with Labels

You can also use
[Kubernetes-style label selectors](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#resources-that-support-set-based-requirements)
to apply a promotion policy to `Stage`s with specific labels:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      matchLabels:
        environment: development
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stageSelector:
      matchExpressions:
      - key: environment
        operator: In
        values: ["development", "staging"]
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

#### Using Stage Selectors with Patterns and Labels

The [name](#using-stage-selectors-with-patterns) and
[label](#using-stage-selectors-with-labels) selectors can be combined, in which
case a `Stage` must match both the name and label selectors to be eligible for
automatic promotion:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProjectConfig
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stageSelector:
      name: glob:prod-*
      matchLabels:
        example.org/allow-auto-promotion: "true"
```

In the example above, the promotion policy applies to all `Stage`s with the
`example.org/allow-auto-promotion: "true"` label and names matching the
`glob:prod-*` pattern.

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.

:::info
Requiring a `Namespace` to have the `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label to
be eligible for adoption by a new `Project` is intended to prevent accidental or
willful hijacking of an existing `Namespace`.
:::

The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with a label unrelated to Kargo:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: example
labels:
  kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
  example.com/org: platform-eng
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  # ...
```

### Preventing Namespace Deletion

By default, when a Project is deleted, Kargo will attempt to delete the corresponding Namespace.
However, in cases where an existing Namespace is adopted by a Project, you may wish to prevent Kargo
from deleting the Namespace during Project cleanup.

To achieve this, you can apply the following label to the Namespace or the corresponding Project
resource with `kargo.akuity.io/keep-namespace: "true"`

## Interacting with Projects

Kargo provides tools to manage `Project`s using either its UI or
CLI. This section explains how to handle `Project`s effectively through both interfaces.


### Creating a Project

<Tabs groupId="create-project">
<TabItem value="ui" label="Using the UI" default>

1. Navigate to the Kargo UI and select <Hlt>Create</Hlt> in the top right corner.

   A <Hlt>Form</Hlt> tab will appear where you can enter the name of your `Project`:

   ![create-project](img/create-project.png)

   Alternatively, you can define the `Project` and other related configurations using the <Hlt>YAML</Hlt> tab:

   ![create-project](img/create-project-2.png)

1. After completing the <Hlt>Form</Hlt> or defining the `Project` in the <Hlt>YAML</Hlt> tab, click <Hlt>Create</Hlt>. 

   The new `Project` will appear a card on the UI's home page:

   ![create-project](img/create-project-3.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

1. To create a `Project` using the CLI, run:

   ```bash
   kargo create project <project>
   ```

   Alternatively, define the `Project` in a YAML file, for example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Project
   metadata:
     name: <project>
   ```

   Save the file and run:

   ```shell
   kargo create -f <filename>
   ```

1. To verify creation of the `Project`, run:

   ```shell
   kargo get project <project>
   ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Deleting a Project

<Tabs groupId="delete-project">
<TabItem value="ui" label="Using the UI" default>

1. Select the `Project` you want to remove.

1. Click the dropdown next to the `Project`'s name in the upper left corner of the `Project` dashboard and click <Hlt>Delete</Hlt>:

   ![delete-project](img/delete-project.png)

1. To confirm deletion, enter the `Project`'s name and click <Hlt>Delete</Hlt> to permanently remove it:

   ![delete-project](img/delete-project-2.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="cli" label="Using the CLI">

To delete a `Project` using the CLI, run:

```shell
kargo delete project <project>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
