docs/docs/50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/30-promotion-steps/delete.md, before:

---
sidebar_title: delete
description: Deletes a file or directory.
---

# `delete`

`delete` deletes a file or directory.

:::note
If you need to delete the entire contents of a Git working tree, consider using
the [`git-clear` step](git-clear.md) instead.
:::

## Configuration

| Name      | Type | Required | Description                              |
|-----------|------|----------|------------------------------------------|
| `path`    | `string` | Y | Path to the file or directory to delete. |

## Examples

### Common Usage

One common usage of this step is to remove intermediate files produced by the
promotion process prior to a [`git-commit` step](git-commit.md). This is useful
when you want to ensure that only the final, desired files are committed to the
repository.

```yaml
vars:
- name: gitRepo
  value: https://github.com/example/repo.git
steps:
- uses: git-clone
  config:
    repoURL: ${{ vars.gitRepo }}
    checkout:
    - commit: ${{ commitFrom(vars.gitRepo) }}
      path: ./src
    - branch: stage/${{ ctx.stage }}
      create: true
      path: ./out

# Steps that produce intermediate files in ./out...

- uses: delete
  config:
    path: ./out/unwanted/file
- uses: git-commit
  config:
    path: ./out
```

Commit message:

feat!: make `delete` directive non-strict by default
This makes a `delete` step succeed when a file or directory that is
attempted to be removed already does not exist, instead of failing.

In case this behavior is undesired, and the promotion has to fail
when the path does not exist, the `strict` configuration option can
be set to `true`.

Signed-off-by: Hidde Beydals <hidde@hhh.computer>

docs/docs/50-user-guide/60-reference-docs/30-promotion-steps/delete.md, after:

---
sidebar_title: delete
description: Deletes a file or directory.
---

# `delete`

`delete` deletes a file or directory.

:::note
If you need to delete the entire contents of a Git working tree, consider using
the [`git-clear` step](git-clear.md) instead.
:::

## Configuration

| Name      | Type | Required | Description                              |
|-----------|------|----------|------------------------------------------|
| `path` | `string` | Y | Path to the file or directory to delete. |
| `strict` | `bool` | N | Strict will cause the directive to fail if the path does not exist. Defaults to `false`. |

## Examples

### Common Usage

One common usage of this step is to remove intermediate files produced by the
promotion process prior to a [`git-commit` step](git-commit.md). This is useful
when you want to ensure that only the final, desired files are committed to the
repository.

```yaml
vars:
- name: gitRepo
  value: https://github.com/example/repo.git
steps:
- uses: git-clone
  config:
    repoURL: ${{ vars.gitRepo }}
    checkout:
    - commit: ${{ commitFrom(vars.gitRepo) }}
      path: ./src
    - branch: stage/${{ ctx.stage }}
      create: true
      path: ./out

# Steps that produce intermediate files in ./out...

- uses: delete
  config:
    path: ./out/unwanted/file
- uses: git-commit
  config:
    path: ./out
```
