docs/docs/60-new-docs/40-operator-guide/20-advanced-installation/10-advanced-with-helm.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: With Helm
description: Learn how to perform an advanced installation of Kargo using Helm
---

# Advanced Installation with Helm

For a customized and secure Kargo setup, follow these advanced installation steps.

## Installation Steps

1. Extract the default values from the Helm chart and save it to a convenient
location. In the example below, we save it to `~/kargo-values.yaml`

    ```shell
    helm inspect values \
    oci://ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts/kargo > ~/kargo-values.yaml
    ```

1. Edit and save the values.

    :::info
    You will find this configuration file contains helpful comments for every
    option, so specific options are not covered in detail here.
    :::

1. Proceed with installation, using your modified values:

    ```shell
    helm install kargo \
    oci://ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts/kargo \
    --namespace kargo \
    --create-namespace \
    --values ~/kargo-values.yaml \
    --wait
    ```

For more information on the available configuration options, refer to the [Kargo Helm Chart README](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/tree/main/charts/kargo).

Commit message:

address reviews by @krancour and @hiddeco
Signed-off-by: Faeka Ansari <faeka6@gmail.com>

security-config message

Signed-off-by: Faeka Ansari <faeka6@gmail.com>

address reviews by @krancour

Signed-off-by: Faeka Ansari <faeka6@gmail.com>

docs/docs/60-new-docs/40-operator-guide/20-advanced-installation/10-advanced-with-helm.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: With Helm
description: Learn how to perform an advanced installation of Kargo using Helm
---

# Advanced Installation with Helm

This section outlines the general steps for customizing Kargo's configuration
when installing it via Helm.

1. Extract the default values from the Helm chart and save it to a convenient
location. In the example below, we save it to `kargo-values.yaml`

    ```shell
    helm inspect values \
    oci://ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts/kargo > kargo-values.yaml
    ```

1. Edit and save the values.

    :::info
    You will find this configuration file contains helpful comments for every
    option, so specific options are not covered in detail here.

    Detailed information about available options can also be found in the
    [Kargo Helm Chart's README.md](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/tree/main/charts/kargo).

    Additionally, for important security-related configuration, check the [Secure Configuration Guide](../40-security/10-secure-configuration.md).
    :::

1. Proceed with installation, using your modified values:

    ```shell
    helm install kargo \
    oci://ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts/kargo \
    --namespace kargo \
    --create-namespace \
    --values kargo-values.yaml \
    --wait
    ```
