docs/old-docs/30-how-to-guides/11-working-with-projects.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
---

# Working with Projects

Each Kargo project is represented by a cluster-scoped Kubernetes resource of
type `Project`. Reconciliation of such a resource effects all boilerplate
project initialization, including the creation of a specially-labeled
`Namespace` with the same name as the `Project`. All resources belonging to a
given `Project` should be grouped together in that `Namespace`.

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
```

:::note
Deletion of a `Project` resource results in the deletion of the corresponding
`Namespace`. For convenience, the inverse is also true -- deletion of a
project's `Namespace` results in the deletion of the corresponding `Project`
resource.
:::

:::info
There are compelling advantages to using `Project` resources instead of
permitting users to create `Namespace` resources directly:

* The required label indicating a `Namespace` is a Kargo project cannot be
forgotten or misapplied.

* Users can be granted permission to indirectly create `Namespace` resources for
Kargo projects _only_ without being granted more general permissions to create
_any_ new `Namespace` directly.

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

## Promotion Policies

A `Project` resource can additionally define project-level configuration. At
present, this only includes **promotion policies** that describe which `Stage`s
are eligible for automatic promotion of newly available `Freight`.

:::note
Promotion policies are defined at the project-level because users with
permission to update `Stage` resources in a given project `Namespace` may _not_
have permission to create `Promotion` resources. Defining promotion policies at
the project-level therefore restricts such users from enabling automatic
promotions for a `Stage` to which they may lack permission to promote to
manually. It leaves decisions about eligibility for auto-promotion squarely in
the hands of someone like a "project admin."
:::

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stage: test
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stage: uat
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.

:::info
Requiring a `Namespace` to have the `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label to be eligible for adoption by a new `Project` is intended to prevent accidental or willful hijacking of an existing `Namespace`.
:::

The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with with a label unrelated to Kargo:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: example
labels:
  kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
  example.com/org: platform-eng
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  # ...
```

Commit message:

docs: update documentation
Signed-off-by: Hidde Beydals <hidde@hhh.computer>

docs/old-docs/30-how-to-guides/11-working-with-projects.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
---

# Working with Projects

Each Kargo project is represented by a cluster-scoped Kubernetes resource of
type `Project`. Reconciliation of such a resource effects all boilerplate
project initialization, including the creation of a specially-labeled
`Namespace` with the same name as the `Project`. All resources belonging to a
given `Project` should be grouped together in that `Namespace`.

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
```

:::note
Deletion of a `Project` resource results in the deletion of the corresponding
`Namespace`. For convenience, the inverse is also true -- deletion of a
project's `Namespace` results in the deletion of the corresponding `Project`
resource.
:::

:::info
There are compelling advantages to using `Project` resources instead of
permitting users to create `Namespace` resources directly:

* The required label indicating a `Namespace` is a Kargo project cannot be
forgotten or misapplied.

* Users can be granted permission to indirectly create `Namespace` resources for
Kargo projects _only_ without being granted more general permissions to create
_any_ new `Namespace` directly.

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

## Promotion Policies

A `ProjectConfig` resource defines project-level configuration for an associated
`Project`. At present, this only includes **promotion policies** that describe
which `Stage`s are eligible for automatic promotion of newly available `Freight`.

The `ProjectConfig` resource must have the same name as its associated `Project`
and be created in the `Namespace` of the `Project`. This separation of
configuration from the `Project` resource enables more granular RBAC control.
Users can be granted permission to modify project configurations via
`ProjectConfig` resources without necessarily having broader access to `Project`
resources themselves.

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
   name: example
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: example
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stage: test
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stage: uat
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.

:::info
Requiring a `Namespace` to have the `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label to
be eligible for adoption by a new `Project` is intended to prevent accidental or
willful hijacking of an existing `Namespace`.
:::

The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with a label unrelated to Kargo:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: example
labels:
  kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
  example.com/org: platform-eng
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  # ...
```
